\documentclass[conference]{IEEEtran}
% correct bad hyphenation here
\hyphenation{op-tical net-works semi-conduc-tor}

\usepackage{hyperref, textcomp, url, cite}

\begin{document}
\title{Poster: Secure Multi-Party Computation as\\ a Tool for Privacy-Preserving Data Analysis}

\author{\IEEEauthorblockN{Samuel Havron
\IEEEauthorblockA{
\emph{University of Virginia}\\
\href{mailto:havron@virginia.edu}{havron@virginia.edu}\\}
}

}
\maketitle

% IEEE POSTER REQUIREMENTS:
%Submit an abstract no longer than two pages describing the work. The abstract title should begin with the keyword "Poster:". Include all authors with contact information and institutional affiliation in your abstract.
%Your abstract should not exceed the two page limit; non-conforming submissions will not be considered for review.
%If accepted, at least one author must be registered and a final version of the poster abstract submitted by Friday, May 13, 2016.

\begin{abstract}

A \emph{Secure multi-party computation} (MPC) protocol allows two or
more parties to compute a function on sensitive input data provided by
both parties, without revealing anything about the inputs (other than
what can be inferred from the revealed output result).  Social
scientists often work with private datasets that cannot be shared due to
legal restrictions and ownership issues, but many interesting studies
could be enabled if MPC allows joint data analyses on private data
analysis. We are exploring opportunities for using MPC to enable
scientific research that would not otherwise be possible.  We have
developed tools and libraries that enable joint scientific data analyses
with private data, and report on preliminary results using MPC to enable
linear regression analyses over private data.

\end{abstract}

\section{Introduction}

Many social scientists and researchers need to perform statistical
analyses across large, independently-owned datasets for their work, but
they are often met with difficulties in obtaining sensitive data and
computing results in a safe manner.  For instance, an education
researcher may be interested in using statistical methods to analyze the
relationship between family income and grade point average for a
particular school system or collection of school systems.  Obtaining
such sensitive data is often difficult to do without trusting one or
more parties with some of the private input data, as well as considering
ownership and legal restrictions on having clear access to private data.
One government agency has information about incomes, but cannot share it
without violating regulations (and compromising privacy); a local school
district has information about students' grades, but cannot correlate
that with their family incomes.  Secure multi-party computation (MPC) is
a protocol which can be used as a tool for carrying out large-scale
scientific data analysis in these situations without compromising the
privacy of any party's data, or risking it being exposed.

\section{Approach}

Several approaches to MPC have been developed, including
application-specific custom protocols and generic, universal techniques
that can be used to compute any function privately.  We use universal
techniques since it is important that new functions can be developed
quickly and without needing new security proofs, and we anticipate
needing to incorporate auditing and other functionality into the MPC.
The most common universal MPC techniques are based on secret sharing,
homomorphic encryption, and garbled boolean circuits using Yao's
protocol.  We use garbled circuits, which are generally the most
scalable and high performance MPC approach currently known.

Obliv-C (\url{http://oblivc.org}) is a programming language which allows
an application developer to quickly implement scalable, secure MPC
protocols, using the language's API or writing specific functionality by
extending the language's existing library as well as experimenting with
the implementation of library protocols\cite{cryptoeprint:2015:1153}.
Obliv-C provides an implementation of Yao's garbled circuit protocol for
use with semi-honest adversaries, although it can also be used to
implement other protocols.  The language is compiled and built on top of
the standard C language, allowing for developers to integrate C tools
and libraries with Obliv-C seamlessly.  This is important for our goals,
since we want the programming required to build an MPC protocol to be as
little as possible, while allowing programmers to integrate existing
tools and libraries.

An excerpt of Obliv-C code below demonstrates input and revealing the 
encrypted correlation coefficient of a linear regression:
\begin{verbatim}
 for(int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
   oArr[i] = feedOblivInt(iArr[i],party);
 }
 obliv int orsqr = getOblivRSquared(oArr);
 revealOblivInt(&io -> rsqr,orsqr,0);
\end{verbatim}
\noindent
The {\tt obliv} qualifier built into Obliv-Câ€™s type system ensures
the variable used is encrypted with the garbled circuit 
scheme\cite{cryptoeprint:2015:1153}. {\tt iArr} is an integer array which is 
converted from plain integers into {\tt obliv}
integers through the {\tt feedOblivInt()} API, which synchronously executes 
by both parties. Explicit typing rules and control flow handling can be found in
the language's repository (\url{https://github.com/samee/obliv-c}).
Following the last two lines of this example, the variable is the
correlation coefficient of linear regression analysis, obtained through
some function call to a method within the MPC protocol that requires the
previously converted array of {\tt obliv} values. The result is
revealed to specified parties through the API {\tt revealOblivInt()},
which works by cooperatively decrypting the encrypted value into a
normal C struct.  Revealing an integer stores the result into a struct
which is accessible to specified parties (``0" means all parties in this
context).

\section{Preliminary Results}

In our experiments so far, we have implemented a linear regression
application as an MPC where data is split between two parties (see repository
at \url{https://goo.gl/jQE3QY}).  One node
instance provided independent ($x$) data points, while the other
provided dependent ($y$) data points; data points used were 32-bit
integers, using fixed-point mathematics to convert raw data values into
scaled integers, as Obliv-C does not currently support floating point
numbers.  The output of the computation is the coefficients that result
from the linear regression, which are publicly revealed to both parties.

Testing was done using c4.large \emph{Elastic Compute Cloud} (EC2) nodes
from \emph{Amazon Web Services} (AWS)\cite{aws:ec2}, which provide
high-frequency Intel Xeon E5-2666 v3 (Haswell) processors optimized
specifically for EC2, two vCPUs, and 3.75 GiB of DRAM.  Two c4.large
instances were launched and connected through Obliv-C's API for TCP/IP
connections. The instances were both located in the same datacenter in
Oregon, with approximately 1 Gbps measured bandwidth between the
nodes. 

The time needed to execute the MPC between instances appears to scale
linearly with the size of the data input; 100K data points finished
execution in 12.7 minutes on average, 500K completed in 63.7 minutes,
and 1 million data points finished execution in just over 127 minutes on
average. Given the relative cost of using a c4.large instance (as of
writing, \$0.105 per hour), executing this program over larger inputs,
such as 10 million data points, will only incur about \$4.45 between two
instances in the estimated runtime of 21 hours.  (All numbers are
averages over 5 executions between c4.large instances.)

Artificial data was generated for testing the scalability of input size,
and considerations to automated data match-ups between two separate
datasets were not implemented; the artifical data was presumed to
already be matched and sorted properly.  To provide a clear example of
the utility of Obliv-C for analyzing sensitive datasets, additional data
for computation was obtained from the public New York State Department
of Health dataset of Hospital Inpatient Discharges from
2011~\cite{healthdata:ny} and is currently being tested. 
This dataset is publicly available and in a
single database, but provides a reasonable model of data that is
sensitive and would be kept privately in different subsets kept by
different organizations.

% fixed -- left as "currently being tested"
% Can't tell what you are saying here - do you have results for this or not?
%Comparisons between fields such as "Length of Days stayed" and "Total
%Costs" over approximately 2.6 million data points are currently being
%tested.  This dataset is particularly amenable to analysis, as all data
%is already matched properly and each data value is a comparable number.

The datasets used in our preliminary experiments assume that data is
matched, sorted, and comprises of comparable values. In a realistic
scenario, it is more likely that the two parties have data for different
individuals, and first need to match up the corresponding records.  This
can be done using private set intersection, which has been efficiently
implemented as an MPC~\cite{NDSS:HuaEvaKat12}.

\section{Related Work}

A similar approach in taking distinct federal datasets and comparing
them was done by Bogdanov et al., where correlations between working
hours and failure to graduate on time in Estonia was investigated,
matching over 10 million tax records and 500K education
records\cite{cryptoeprint:2015:1159}.  This analysis utilized the
researchers' own framework for secure computation, \emph{ShareMind}, a
database and analytics system which uses three somewhat-trusted parties
to carry out computations, and uses arithmetic manipulations to
implement secure MPC, rather than boolean circuit
evaluation\cite{sharemind}.  The model where sensitive data is split
between three parties that are trusted to not collude or disrupt the
protocol enables many efficiencies not possible in standard MPC, but
requires three parties in which both participants have a high degree of
trust.

Another privacy-preserving approach to analyzing millions of records
uses a combination of homomorphic encryption (for linear computations)
and Yao circuits (for non-linear computations) in order to compute ridge
regression~\cite{ridgeregression}.  This approach is designed for many
users to send data to a central server that performs the bulk of the
computation, in contrast to the two-party model used in MPC. Yet another
approach used for secure multiple linear regression relies on protocols
based on homomorphic secret sharing, and data which is partitioned
across several databases\cite{secretsharing}.
 
\section{Conclusion}

Using MPCs for scientific analysis of large datasets is promising for
social scientists and researchers whom would otherwise need to reveal
some of one party's input to another party in order to analyze their
data or be unable to perform analysis due to legal restrictions and
ownership issues.  We hope progress in MPC implementation will enable
new kinds of scientific data analysis, and envision tools that will make
these techniques accessible to social scientists.  Future work invites a
closer examination of automatic data-matching between separate datasets
with private set intersection, improving fixed-point integer conversion
for decimal data values used in computation, and other
privacy-preserving applications.

\bibliographystyle{plain}
\bibliography{references}

\end{document}
